Ready. Ready. Recording.
>> This is a special meeting of the board of education,
for 08/21/2023.
Thank you everyone for being here, for giving up an extra evening of your month of August.
Thank you.
Okay.
This is the special meeting.
>> We generally stick to the topic that's on the agenda
and then board business with discussion and possible action on the 35 School Road Upper
Upper parking lot paving project.
Anybody have any communication?
I do.
>> Well, we got a communication from Eric
that is reported over to us. Is that what you're referring to?
Which one? Which one? That one before the last meeting.
That was before
the board of finance meeting. Correct.
>> Alright. That that email. That email. Yes. After the board of selection. I didn't know
>> opt out as far as the communication so to speak.
>> So the day after the board of selection, you're gonna see the next Tuesday. Right? Right.
No.
>> No. Is that an or the. The
board of finance is still trying to quorum
either tomorrow, 08:16,
at 07:00 or Thursday,
08/17,
at 07:30.
Will the board then have a representative available?
And this was
inclusive
of
the
restrictions and changes that the board of Select was asking
be attached to the paving contract.
You want the red?
Nope. I don't think
>> It says okay. Okay. Let me just see. Yeah. So I'm just trying to connect.
Hi. Can you hear us when I don't I don't know. I know you can probably hear me, but can you hear Hi. Yeah.
I Get out. I can hear all you guys.
Hi. Hi.
Hi. Hi, Carrie.
Hi, Caitlin.
Hi.
>> So that was the communication by you to the board of finance moving Tuesday night. Right. But are you talking about Thursday night. Right. But are you talking about the email that Eric had sent
on
to
on August 15
>> about the BOS meeting and what they voted on. Is that what you're referring to? Yes. Okay. So you think that should be included in this? Is that what we're
I do because I then think that the board of finance took action on that. Is that correct?
Correct. I mean, it it talks about the what the the board the board selected meeting, what the conditions were,
and then his
proposal,
so to speak, of what we should do to move the project along.
And then
and then there was communication about when the special board of finance meeting was gonna be. Right. Yep. Yeah.
I think that
Right. Informs our meeting tonight as far as I was That's why I asked Tommy to read it. No. No. No. No. I've already read it. I don't know if it it should get you included in the minute. It should be through the application. Right. That's all I was trying to the the attachment that too bad. Because on here, it says, you know, the contractor has has to agree I guess, to agree with the technical department's new job. Right. Yep. Right. So Yep. The conditions were, and then the contract is correct. And for for the finance meeting,
Eric was going to reach out to the contractor.
>> Right. Right? Oh, he went there. I was not there. So yeah.
I don't I don't remember that. I don't I don't remember it that way. I don't remember that he was gonna reach out because I he didn't I don't remember him saying that at all.
I don't remember him saying that either.
I I think it would be on us to reach out to the contractor to see if the contractor would agree to the conditions. That that's the way
I
remember it going.
And the Board of Finance's decision was?
To
sorry. The it was the the decision was to
for us to put the money into that line item at in the town to pave the upper parking lot.
Then for everything else that the board selected him
So that recommended, required, whatever they did Yes. So paid how?
So, basically, we need to go back to Constantine, and we need to inform Constantine
that
the the town that that there's conditions now. Right. That there are all these conditions and that there's a there's an addendum to this. Right. And that the contractor needs to add an addendum to the original contract that we got Mhmm.
Agreeing to these conditions. Mhmm. And then once the contractor
agrees to it,
get a new estimate should it change.
Eric seemed to think that it
might really not make much of a difference. In fact, maybe it might be a little cheaper because
the town's gonna do the basin
tops or but, again, I don't think it's really gonna swing it all that much. Mhmm.
And the board of finance agreed
to I think it was up to a 125,000
so that we would, again,
get get the new
contract
with the agreed conditions that the town has laid out, get the new estimate,
and then we would transfer the money
to the town for whatever that amount is. That's what that's what I was getting at. Up to a 120 yep. Up to a 125,000
requires a transfer.
And then Eric seemed to think that once
once that happens and we get on Constantine's
agenda or schedule,
the project would maybe take five to six days.
So I think what we need to do next is, number one,
agree
to we agree to move the money, but now we've gotta get Constantine
to take a look at these conditions. The
way Eric put it,
it's pretty,
like, boilerplate condition that I don't think it's not it's you know what I mean? Like, I don't think it's anything that's gonna be right. Exactly. I mean, it's typical kind of town
conditions. Mhmm. But we need to
get get that to Constantine and then decide if we're gonna move the money.
And
the town is responsible
for paying for everything else
that were part of the conditions that the board's left and laid out? Whatever is in this email, the contractor has I read a bunch of cases that
said the town will do this. The town will do this. So the town is doing that, and we are not required to reimburse the town for those
>> activities. That was not discussed. Yeah. That's that's correct. The town is providing all of that.
>> They're providing. We are not reimbursing. Yeah. The town is with the understanding
this is this is what this is what the understanding that the town will supply and pay for. Three new basin tops.
The public works supervisor will inspect the basin to ensure the pipe has been properly mow mortared prior to the paving.
The the town will hire NLJ
to monitor paving thickness during paving.
The town will hire materials testing lab to measure soil compaction prior to the paving.
The town will hire materials testing lab to measure asphalt compaction
of the binder and wearing
course after compaction,
and the town will backfill behind the curbing at the completion of the job with loam and re seat with standard seed mix designed for fast grass establishment.
Eric said with respect to that one,
that can be done, like, at a later date. That doesn't have to be done to complete it for people to drive on it. That's just kind of, like, cosmetic. But with everything else, all the other conditions, Celeste, you had said something about five to six days. It's gonna To do the project. To do the whole project with the basin, with the loan. Yep. Yep. About five to six days. But that doesn't necessarily include your time.
>> And I'm not a paving person, so I don't know if you can immediately drive on it. Oh, yeah. I would doubt I mean, I would doubt cars maybe. Buses, probably not. I don't know. He he Eric seemed to think that it would take from start to finish five to six days
>> For the project, and then we have to find out how long
it will take for buses to be allowed to go on. Right? Right. If the five to six includes
Right. Buses driving on it or right. So I just wanna make sure that because I haven't been able to have included the
the basins and everything that were put on by the Yeah. We are not we are not
Okay. We are not reimbursing the town for that. It's spelled out here that the town will pay for that. Right.
And then so once so how it was left at the board finance meeting, once we get Constantine's,
you know, new
proposal with the agreed
conditions with the addendum
with the price with the price.
Eric issues the permit.
You go.
>> Two to three days for drying time, not your time. Okay. Yeah. For drying time. Drawing time. Not your you can drive on. Your time is six to twelve months.
>> Oh, right. Yeah. Two to three days Yeah. Before you can drive on. Right. Right. The car. What about parking on it?
>> You know, what what do we need to do as far as this flu is concerned and Right. I mean, you know
and it all is really gonna and I asked at the meeting if this has to go out for a bid because the way I looked at the attachment, it made it look like it was going out for bid, and Eric said it was not going out for bid, and the board of finance said it was not going out for bid. So as long as Constantine agrees to this, which I'm sure he's done other town jobs. I'm sure this isn't completely out of, you know, the realm of what what this company has done.
It's now just a matter of
getting on their schedule. You know? Just because if we're ready to go tonight or tomorrow and we get the permit, it doesn't necessarily mean that he's ready to go on Thursday.
I don't know. I don't have the answer to that. So
>> And if he doesn't agree, though,
I would suspect he will have to go on the way.
I don't think that. Right. But,
>> again would lead to their condition. They're absolutely.
Right. But I looked at that, and I looked at what they were proposing, and it there wasn't it wasn't a big, like,
swing of work and and everything like that. It wasn't you know, I think they increased the compaction or whatever they were saying at the meeting or some level or something. So,
again, I I don't. And the way Eric talked about it, it was kind of standard operating procedure for town projects, and I'm sure a few new companies, you know, will do this. So I think they'll not. They they increased the the depth of reclamation. That was it. That was it. The Which I presume is is a time factor.
Yeah. I With my guess. Yeah. Yeah. They have to go down a little farther, I guess. So
so yeah.
I'm an IT person here. I'm not It's a reclamation
you. Contraction.
And so,
yeah.
So, like, was there a discussion
by the board of finance as to why they believe
that we had to
put the money into our I guess they're referring to the line item capital account
as opposed to paying for it as we had done by from our own budget.
No. There was no discussion. This is how it's going to go.
And then I asked at the end of the meeting that we get on their agenda to talk about this account and who
who administers
this account. Does the board do we go to the board of finance to ask for permission like we wanted, or do we have to go to the town to ask for money?
So
they kept it short and sweet. Mark didn't really wanna get outside
of what was on the agenda. We we definitely nibbled at it.
But I, at the end of the meeting,
you know, said that I think it would be helpful
that we have a meeting to talk about this because this is obviously
we're gonna have other projects. I mean, this is, like, the first of many, and how do we go about,
you know, doing this? So
but, no, there was no discussion about that. But I want there to be a discussion. And and
So there was nothing that said,
here's what we're pointing to in our charter. Here's what we're pointing to in the town policies
that required the board of education to do this contrary to what we charter actually said. We nibbled on it, but Mark didn't wanna hear it, and we're just this is what we're doing. We're transferring the money, and that's it. And then that's for a much bigger discussion. He did acknowledge it, and he said that's for a much bigger discussion.
And that's where I think we need to have that. But for the purposes of this meeting, it was to just transfer, you know, to transfer the money, earmark it for the paving projects, then we move on. Well, we can't just transfer
>> That's where my concern is is that, you know,
it seems like people
at that meeting just kinda wanted to go far with this without actually having a conversation about the process in which we're doing so.
And
if we're gonna go through this process
and nothing's being pointed out within the charter that says this is how it's supposed to be done,
we might be setting a precedent up for future
situations,
and we might be boxing ourselves in. And I just I feel very uncomfortable about
the way this is kind of being dictated to us
instead of us being responsible
per what we think the charter says we are allowed to do and being able to handle that money
on our own. I like, I'm very disturbed about just the the the lack of
respect for what I think should be the proper process.
>> Well, it's not in respect for the proper process, but just playing out disrespect to the law. Right. It's clear here.
I mean, we we encumbered operational funds, which is why I said we can't just move the money. We voted to encumber it. We would have to vote to unencumber it. Can't just move it.
Right?
Right.
>> I guess that's the finest person. Mhmm. Well, as long as it's Gary, did you hear As long as it's expiration, we can move it. If it was if we had a capital Yes. But we can't because
it's in over. Yeah. Right.
Gary, did you hear Chris' question?
You're muted. You're muted.
>> No. Sorry. I didn't hear the question, Chris. If you could repeat it.
>> So we just moved the money to the account over to the tenant because we have an encumbrance on the books that we, the board of educators, voted on. Yes. So we cannot that encumbrance without another vote by the board of education to release that number. Correct. Operate.
So
minimum,
we would have to vote to release that money.
And right now, I'm suspecting there are several of us sitting on the board who are not going to vote to release that money.
>> I I I will openly say that I will not because this is not the proper way for us to handle our business. If we if we strictly believe
in the rights and role of our our board of education, this is not something
as bad as we might need a parking parking lot. This is not something that I believe we should go through with because I think it's gonna do more harm in the long run. I mean, it's just, like, in my opinion, it's just not the legal way to do it. It's just not the right way to do it.
>> I agree with you, Mike, and and you used the word that I would have used, which is precedent.
So if we do it this way this time,
and
we basically get dictated to by the board of selectmen, by the board of finance without
any legal or charter justification
for what they believe should occur.
We're just setting ourself up for having this be the way of the future every single time. Yeah. And it's and if there's no,
as far as I understand, nothing that I could find that in the charter or the law that justifies
the conditions that are being put on as far as what we're allowed to do with our operational funds
that have been budgeted to the board of education.
>> Can I add something?
Oh, I'm sorry. Can
I add I've done some research on the encumbrance and how long we can keep it? And, legally, we can keep the encumbrance on our books until 06/30/2024.
So this doesn't have to be something you decide tonight.
I mean, I know this what this meeting is for,
but in the meantime, I have done a little legwork to find out how long we can encumber this money for.
>> Well, unfortunately, Carrie, the biggest thing as far as time is concerned is what's gonna happen when school opens
and
they
I know
it's a safety issue. I understand.
Yeah.
>> I mean, we have three parents sitting on the board, parents on the board. May I may I say something? Because I think I have a different viewpoint than the rest of you, and I don't
I I don't wanna be arguing about it.
I've had several conversations with several different people who serve different roles in our town.
I
feel very strongly that we need to try
better
as a board and as the other two boards to try to all work together.
I think that an effort is being made here for that to happen. And
getting stuck up in the in the legal aspects or in the precedent of this versus that
doesn't help our cause of trying to fix something that is a safety issue for our children. I, myself, twisted my ankle picking my kid up from camp at Kool because of the state of the driveway and the parking lot. So I I personally,
like, I think we need to go ahead
and get it done. The
money that already exists in that account is there from a previous project that was done back when Sally
was
the superintendent, the 8,000 that's already there.
So
>> But that's not our account. Right? Yes. It is. No. No. It is on the account's side.
That's the account that they want us to put the money into, especially this under the board of selected. Right.
>> Right.
And and, Caitlin, I mean, I I respectfully, I get what you're saying,
but we've been trying to work. I mean, you've been trying to work. I'm just seeing a meeting schedule.
And and we've been trying to work more collaboratively with the boards
other boards.
And I won't say it at the board of finance, but the board of selectmen has
very clearly
the board of selectmen and our town manager has very clearly
demonstrated.
They
don't
want to consider our viewpoints.
>> So I will tell you I will tell you from personal conversations that we're not part of that whole entire chain of email that that is not entirely true.
I personally feel confident that we can work together, and there are certain people who are willing to step up and allow that to happen
and would like for the capital account to to be what is intended to be on both other boards.
So I just They would I think that I think that forcing
it now is just further pushing apart a divide that already exists.
>> So I would like to know other than those conversations that we don't we're not privy to, what have you seen as far as either a a
reaching out or a cooling of the ways with regard to how the board of education has been treated or is thought of by either the board of finance or the board of selectmen? Because I will tell you I have seen nothing to that extent. And certainly with regard to the board of selectmen,
they seem not willing at all to sit down to a meeting of the three boards. Not one of them has offered,
to sit down and have a meeting of the three boards.
>> That is not actually true.
K? That's probably in direct conversation with two of them who would like that to occur.
I I also was the only one at our board that went to the whatever ceremony on Friday for the community center,
and they wanted the board of ed to to be a part of that. Like, I went up and shoveled the dirt into the hole or whatever, like, on behalf of the board of ed. So I'd please please know there are people on the other boards that would like our town to work together. Like, I promise you guys. I'm not just saying that as a as a hollow promise.
>> No. And I have to agree with Caitlin.
They this money, it I I I get it. I am not I am not the biggest fan of handing over a $125,000
to the town, given everything that's happened. I'm not. However,
we are in a position now where we have an upper parking lot that is going to be closed off for, what, if we don't decide to do this today, months.
And now we have pickup and drop off down here. We have a construction site over there,
and it and it is going to and and I agree with Caitlin. It's going to just
further the further the divide in this town.
If we can't this money has been earmarked for the upper parking paving lot. It's on public record by the board of selectmen. It's on public record by the board of finance.
If we transfer the money, we get the upper parking lot paid,
and then we come back to the board of finance, and we have a meeting about
this account, maybe doing another account like Valerie suggested about where it's just the board of finance, and we go to them,
then then we can have that conversation. And that was the takeaway I got from that meeting, that the Board of Finance does wanna talk about that, that they're willing to do that. But I just think right now, they earmarked it for this project. It's on public record. The board of select and agreed to it. The board of finance agreed to it.
I get it. I get it. I get it. But I don't wanna have that upper parking lot closed for months.
I don't. But they I don't either. But the first time that we agreed to this, there is nothing
from either the board of finance That's not true, though. No. No. No. That's not true. Let me finish my statement because I I think you'll agree with me. Yep. There is nothing in writing
or in a statement
from either the board of finance or the board of selectmen that says, hereafter,
we're not gonna make these requirements. We have no commitment from either one of them. So the next time this comes about and it's a safety related issue, I have nothing from either of those boards that says, we're gonna work better with you. And you never will. You never will. But we will. We've written letters to us for months. But, Shannon, you
in a perfect world,
they would they would work with us and all of that, but we also have to work with the people that are that are in those positions.
Yep. We have to. And they have to respond to us I get it. As a board. You're absolutely right. Right. You're absolutely right. Is that ever going to happen? I hope so. One day, I hope so. But for right now, this is where we're at. This is what we're dealing with. We're dealing with them over there, and here we are. So what do we do? Do we say no, and we let that fucking lot close for months because
because we wanna litigate it now?
I'm
not up for that. No.
>> I think that's really the wrong move. And in terms of how that paints the board of ed in in light to the rest of our town and to parents whose kids attend the school, I I think it's wrong.
>> But they had made us out to be the bad guys, and they have put us in a position that is absolutely untenable as far as I'm concerned.
So whereas
I thought we were gonna get parents to go and represent that it was not okay with the parents that the parking lot not get paid and tell the board of selectmen that that wasn't in the school's interest,
and the board of education had acted properly and did what they were supposed to do. Now we're in a situation where the board of selectmen is active, the board of finance is active without
any justification whatsoever in the law or in our charter,
and you can put the law aside.
Because we have a situation that has been brought about by the fact that they haven't been responsive for months, and now Board of Ag is gonna look like the bad guys Right. If we don't bring this about. Exactly. That's bullshit, Nina. A 100%. I, Shannon, I agree with you a 100%. Okay. Our back is against the wall. So what do we do? And we have no
promise going forward You're right. That it won't always be against the wall. You're absolutely right. You're absolutely right. Dealt with poorly with regards to community center. We're getting dealt with poorly again here. And I, unlike Caitlin,
don't see any any
warming of the wings. Let's put it that way. But but I disagree with you on that. Okay. Because at the end of that and and that's fine. But at the end of that Board of Finance meeting, Mark Richel was open to us having that discussion, and Caitlin Caitlin echoed my remarks.
She said, I said, I want to have a better
rule, something laid out that says
a, b, c, and d. Mhmm. I know. But you know what? They're never gonna they're unfortunately, they're never gonna recognize that. They're never. They're never gonna do it. They're never going to do it, guys. They're never gonna listen to the law. If if we didn't learn that with the senior center,
sure as hell aren't gonna do it now. So what are they gonna do? What are we what are we I
don't, Michael.
On principle
>> on principle, that book I mean, in my opinion, you know, I I hate to be so blunt, but, like, as a parent, I get it. Like,
having that shutdown or having that be not as safe as it can be if it's if it's redone, like, I get that. I get the dangers. I get the concerns with that. But that book that Chris is holding, that he keeps on holding up up and kinda showing off to you all, that matters
and principle matters.
And
if we don't
you know, if we don't uphold that, then I feel like we're failing as board of education members. Like like, I get the real life impact of things. Trust me. Like, I understand all, but we're failing
our role as a Connecticut
Board of Education member if we're not gonna uphold
basic
basic procedural
processes. Like,
I can't go through with some of this in my own personal view when we're practically ignoring
what we should be goal time. So I I I'm very disturbed
by moving forward with it.
>> I'm just so we're all on the same page. Right? I mean I mean, there's town charter, which even if the town charter said they can do what they want, I mean,
this trumps town charter. Right? Correct. I mean, it
it's supreme.
So
I get what you're saying, Celeste, and I agree.
I would love to find a middle ground where we can move forward with parking lot
and and and address the situation.
>> I honestly just don't know what it is because we've tried. You're right. And I don't either doesn't mean we just throw in the towel? No. We're not throwing in the towel. We're not. I I
trust me. I don't like it either. I really don't. I really, really don't. But at some point, you just have to kind of, like,
accept that those are the people that are that are in office. And it's like, we can litigate here. We can yell at one another. We can we can do whatever the hell we want. But at the end of the day, they're not gonna recognize that. They're not recognizing the charter,
>> and they're not gonna recognize us. Until we get new administration over there, This is this is it. This is it. It does it does it doesn't matter if they're not gonna recognize that we still have to do what is right by our role and responsibility.
Like, we still have to do right by that.
>> So what is I don't know what is right. I there is no there is no right. There is no, like, this is the right answer, and this is the wrong answer. But I am not willing to litigate this at the expense of the children and at the expense of keeping that parking lot closed for months. I hope that we transfer the money, and we and we have a bigger conversation with the board of finance about this account and try to create our own account that we wanted from the very beginning. This money has been earmarked for this paving lot. This is all that they can do with it, and we move on.
>> So
I'm gonna read paragraph from here about the board of education.
Board organizations, the dual nature of the board of education as a town body
as well as an agent of the state, as evident in the statutes.
Moreover, the courts have held that board of education members
have a dual status serving both as town officers
and serving as agents of the state
to implement educational interests of the state.
So, I mean,
I yeah. I I I I mean, I get what you're saying. I
>> Chris, we could put that on a billboard in front of the town hall. They still would not listen.
They still won't respect us. And maybe there is a changing of the tide.
Caitlin's had conversations.
I walked away from that board of finance meeting feeling supported by them,
you know, that they wanna have this conversation about the account. Joanne Hiebert made it very clear that she's here to, you know, make sure that the kids are safe.
I I didn't I didn't walk away from that meeting feeling like that they don't understand us or that they don't get us, anything
like that. But it's on this is the way it's gonna go down. We don't we don't go forward with this. Now we're now the board you've got it's on record that the board of Select and Okayed it. It's on record that the board of finance Okayed it. And now all of sudden, the board of ed is not gonna go forward.
We're we're gonna look we're gonna look bad in all of this. And, I don't I'm not saying it's right. That's how it's gonna go down. But while they may have okayed it, they have overpaid it in violation of Connecticut law. There you go.
>> Exactly. But your but your but your point of the four twenty one that work work together, because I've had conversations with people too. And I think individually,
I think you're right. I think they do wanna work more. Right. But there's some element, and I don't know what it is when they all get together Yep. That that thought process goes out the window. I mean, many of you were there when we had the conversation across the street about memorandum of understanding.
Right. In one year and half the other. And we were here when we had that conversation.
And and I specifically
asked
>> Jeff Maguire to come back to us with areas where you're concerned Right. And completely ignored us. Exactly. And in the meeting, he was supposed to call out, and we never did. So, guys,
this is who we're dealing with, and it's not gonna change.
Well, that's the concern. Right. Right there. Right. So you have just put it in a nutshell. It isn't gonna change. Right. But what are we So it didn't change in the community center. Right? Right. So we didn't litigate that. Right. And here we are again.
And I don't wanna litigate. I'm a litigator. I know you are. I I want the kids to be safe. I want that parking lot done Right. Like done months ago. Right. But they have put us in this position of not giving us a permit,
requiring us to violate the law,
and I personally can't do that. I I don't know what to do because
I'm an officer of the law. Mhmm.
I have a responsibility as a lawyer, as a board member, as a town community member. There's
no right answer, Sharon. Well, there is, but No, my answer. There is a a very right answer, and it sits right there in that blue book. The problem is is the way that the board of selectmen and the board of finance have made their decisions,
then it comes at the cost of the safety of that upper park parking lot,
and how long is that gonna take to get done. So let's play out because you were playing out it may take months.
If we don't transfer the money,
then what happens?
So
can we not so then the permit doesn't get issued. Right. Correct. Mhmm. And then what we would have to do is
call into the lawyers to say it is improper. The permit is not being
given.
Right. Because Constantine's
pavement has met the requirements. We've agreed with the requirements. We added to the addendum,
and then what happens?
So we've made a a ruling
to transfer the money. We have the money available. The
only thing that's holding us up is the town's not granted a permit for our paper to pay. Right. Correct?
Correct. And if I may read through the book again Well, I'm just asking what what is the so we are very clear Because it's we what what Board Select and Board of Finance are requiring us to do. What's the alternative if we don't? It's what I what I would like to discuss quickly. They won't give us the permit. I understand. And then what's our recourse? The the parking lot's closed. Then what? We then we hire lawyers and litigate
>> so that they so that they will go ahead and press. Yeah. Mean, the, you know, the the board there therefore, has the authority over such buildings as subject to local zoning regulations.
Indeed, a board of education may be agreed by a zoning decision made by local officials and even sue the municipalities
over such matters
as specified New Haven Board of Education versus Zoning Board of Appeal. And, again, I agree. It's not the right answer,
but
they're forcing our hands.
Can I say something? No. You're the chair. Go for it. I'm
>> listening to everybody's
conversation,
and I I understand
what everybody
is saying.
I feel as though
first of all, had a don't forget. I had a meeting with Jessica McGuire and Mark Franco, the
three of us,
as with three different board chairs.
And
in a way,
>> I can see their concerns on that this job be done correctly, that it can be a nightmare if it's not.
I understand that.
I personally feel
that there should be
two accounts. Mhmm.
One
actually, three. One of them is a 2% account.
fund that you would like is on your terms.
>> It's basically 2% account, but it's on your terms. Right. It's a capital. The capital. That's the one that they And that we put
money into that,
and
>> there should be the third account,
which is what the board of selectmen want.
Now that third account,
I believe,
should be a line item in the in the
town budget
for our
capital
project.
The town really should be paying
our capital project.
We shouldn't have to lean
on Valerie
to be pulling in grants.
She's doing everybody a favor, like pulling money.
I think we need an account
as she has requested, like a 2% account,
>> for us to put our money in where we only have to consult with the
>> Board of finance. Board of finance.
Which And then Right.
>> If we can we need to establish this now,
not looking in the rearview mirror.
Because if you don't ask for it now,
>> no. You won't get it. Right. But I think that
>> I know this project is
weighs heavy on everyone's mind.
And
the project
while it needs to be done, I don't think it's to the point of
urgency.
I think we have time to sit with people,
negotiate,
come to an agreement,
sign the legal documentation,
and make sure everything's spelled out clearly.
This account here
works like this.
Border sponsor has no no touch on it. No. We don't ask no permission.
Our money,
money that Valerie saved up,
put in there.
Then there's the debt, and that would be used for capital project.
And then she's got a 2% account. We'll put in there,
and we we live by the rules of that.
And what we need
for that, we we take out what we want.
And then there should be one by that that is linked to the border of selectmen,
the town.
And they should have a line item
supporting what needs to be done in this property and this building,
and they should be feeding into that account. They want us to get permission. They might sure. We'll we'll we'll we'll apply.
>> Problem with that is, Jerry, is that's outside our scope of control. We can ask, as you said Mhmm. And we're gonna end right back where we were. I I mean,
>> they'll just say same thing with the 2% account because we have to go. And while it really is our money that we put into a nonlapsing account,
we somehow need to get the permission of the board of finance to get the money back out.
Alright. This is crazy.
What if because it still goes by guidelines
of which other
those sections would say your decisions are excluded
from the other agencies that fall under the federal court of Selection.
What if
Terry
dropped the check
for Constantine's
in the amount that we agreed upon with the contract that we agreed upon,
And we ask
the board
of finance,
if it's okay with them, that that check or what you guys agreed upon
sits in the safe of the town hall during the course of the project, and then let them rebuild the difference for those additional things that they're asking.
It permit.
Well still The thing is they they will get the town has said that it won't issue the permit
because
they wanted a litany of additional things done that they're willing to pay for.
Right. So there's As a guideline for them, according to that meeting Right. Was
that we'll pay for the additional ones,
but you guys are paying for the original contract.
We would be paying for the original contract, and Terry would have cut that check already,
and they would be holding the check.
Right. But there's but on that okay. But in in Eric's email, it talks about what the town is gonna pay for, which the basin tops, and they're gonna hire this, that, and the other to monitor stuff.
And then in the in the addendum,
there
the attachment,
there's repair the catch basin,
catch basins,
mark
reclaim,
reclaim, remove all of that. So Constantine
needs to sign off on this
and then
rework whatever
their
Homeless. Thank you. If it's more or less Yep. And then sign off on all of it. Mhmm. We get that to Eric. Eric issues the permit,
but we need to transfer the money into that account, into that line item.
So I I'm
I knew what you I would rather transfer the exact dollar amount that what Constantine
We have what it is they're asking Constantine for anymore
because the things that they're asking for are additional costs.
Right. But so we won't get a copy of the quote without if we go to Constantine and say, hey. This is what Let's say we have a 100,000 set aside right now,
and the new quote with all of the things because some of the things that Eric has on here are hiring somebody else that NJ
oh, no. NLJ.
Let's see. The town is paying for that. Correct. So this whole project, let's say,
then turns from a 100,000 to a 150,000.
The board of finance already agreed the other night that the town is gonna pay the difference.
You know?
So
if they have our check
for a $100,000
or whatever the price was from Constantine is, they can still pay
their bill in the end with that loan. They're not gonna do it that way. Well, and Constantine may not do it that way.
I like your compromise.
It's not gonna happen. They're not looking for a compromise. This is what they spelled it out. This is how we want it done. This is we want it done. There is no going back. Okay. There is no I disagree. I disagree. Is this is it, and it gets done. That's not compromising. They're forcing our hand. So Right. The compromise is is we pay for what we agreed to pay for.
You have a check-in then. There's no account that we need to transfer. They're not gonna be like I understand. If you believe that, okay. I don't.
Because there's gotta be some way around this to get to something where we abide by all responsibilities under the law
and the charter,
and they do the same.
So doing the same would be we cut the check.
The only thing we need to do is go back to Constantine's
and
confirm that he, the their paving company,
is willing to allow these other things and the other things that the town and the board selecting that in person are able to be done
within the project.
Because they're in person in terms of to
that other.
Right.
What does that have anything to do with us? That's where I'm losing it. That's where I'm getting confused here. They've agreed to pay for x, y, and z. We need to go back to Constantine
and give him this attachment
and ask him this is this is what this is what now that the town is requesting,
and Constantine sign off on it as a as an addendum
to their quote. Mhmm. We hand it into the town.
We get the permit. But we should look. We transfer the money. We have to transfer the money. It shouldn't matter where they would have come from. Right. That's what the point is.
They're not gonna go for it. Then now then it's gonna go back to their them. They're gonna have now another meeting, and it's gonna take more time.
It was very clear what the board of finance and what the board of selectmen has agreed to. It very clear what we agreed to, and we we came first months ago.
They're they're not they're not gonna go back with with us saying, okay. Well, we'll do it this way. It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. So I'm gonna surprise you.
>> Mark Mark made it very clear that he didn't even want to bring it up in discussion. It was a discussion for another time that they wanted to have, but not about this.
>> Right.
Since you're not operating as legal counsel, which is why I Oh. Pressed it, but you do not have to answer this question. If we were to go ahead and move money,
are there other intermediary
reports that we would have short of a lawsuit.
Could we do a cease and desist letter?
For for what? Cease and desist what? For cease and desist of ignoring our directives.
Our our duly authorized elect directive
under the Connecticut general statutes.
>> But then I don't what are the consequences of that? I That I mean, that's that's what those all all get sound to. That's why I'm asking.
I
>> don't know. All
I can say is I sit here right now. Is there I mean, I don't there are a lot of different
things that we can come up with, and I hear what Celeste is saying, and I respect what you're saying. We dealt with each other respectfully. We just disagree.
I mean, I think
I was trying to get at the the two different ways to look at this. Number one is we just capitulate,
and that's what I see it as I do. We've been ordered by the board of selectmen and the board of finance to do something that's illegal and not in line with our charter.
And I'm trying to get to and what if we try to do something else?
And
I'm one that doesn't put a line in the sand
and ever say,
but for this, I'm not agreeing to this, which is what I feel is being done. Right? If you don't do it this way, which is not proper. Right. And we've not given you any justification why it should have to be done this way, then we're not playing in your sandbox.
Right. But they're they're
it's
the horse is out of the barn. Right? It's like the town has said their piece. The board of finances has has said their piece. They've given us their directions as illegal as it is, and I get it. Mhmm.
You can't unring the bell. This is what we're dealing with. And if we go but we can, Shannon, but then it's going to take months.
This is a month. Months. We're gonna have to go back on a meeting, and then we're gonna have to do this, and then it's gonna go back and forth and back and forth. All the while, that parking lot stays closed. Mhmm. No. No.
This is this is what they want us to do. This is how we have to do it. I don't like it. It's against the law. I get it. I get it, but this is what this is their directives. They want it done this way.
Okay. Then then
then they should pay for it.
>> So
please don't take what I'm about to say I'm up. As as a threat.
But if we are not going to uphold the law of state,
I'm done. I resign,
and I won't come back ever.
>> And, Chris, I would echo that statement.
I would echo Chris' statement. If if we as a board you know, I mean, Celeste, with all due respect, like, I I as a fellow parent, I get it. Like, I would be
I I get the frustration. I get that whole
that whole thought process. But for me, I mean, just even in our comments here, like,
I think we all can say that it's not the the legal thing to do. It's not the lawful thing to do. It's not what
as a board member we should be deciding in this case. And if as a board, we're going to do something
that
isn't the legal thing to do, then I I personally can't be on a board that acts that way. So I would echo Chris' statement.
>> I guess I don't see the urgency. The parking lot hasn't been been paid.
We've lived with it for how long it was. Yeah. But it's gonna be closed, Jerry.
>> Why? Because of safety.
Caitlin twisted her ankle picking up her son from cool camp over the summer. It's it's a safety reason. So Is that on the basketball court or in the parking lot? In the parking lot. That's the ball court. Oh, I am.
>> But but at the last meeting, we decided to close it, and Taylor said that she's gonna close it because We said we needed to pave it because of safety. You can't then say, oh, it's actually okay because we want to fight this legal battle. You can't do that.
Right.
So then you
early. And
>> I don't think she has. Anything else happened.
Right. Right.
I don't personally know. I mean, I took it on your representation
that They
go up and inspect and say, yes. And I have no idea what the safety requirements are. So does it meet the requirements of being beamed safe?
Miss, hold on. If you don't mind. Does it meet the requirements of being beamed unsafe
for
school buses to drive on or cars to drive on? I I can't speak to school bus safety. They would. Yep. It is not safe for our students.
So it does it does need to I mean,
the fact that my pride of a student, whether or not a family parks there and throughout a classifying, I mean, not an adult, but for students that are. I
just wanted that clarification. Yep. For students, it's absolutely
a priority.
I personally said all that I need to say. I think we need to bring it to motion. I could call the question or whatnot, but we don't have a pending motion. So
>> You know I I don't understand. I'm
not pretty.
I didn't talk to anybody. I I I'd say that they they have some very strong
emotions and sentiments about it. Because you're I realize you do. Right. And and and, you know, I
>> just
I sent you frustrated. I get it. I get it, guys. I get it. It sucks. It really
sucks.
But what are we going to do? Are we is this is this the fight? Is this the battle where we're gonna, like, dig our heels in and and and and and go for it over a parking lot? I mean and I I I get it. I get the the bigger picture and and the law and and all of them. I really, really do.
But we are going to look like
like like
we're the bad guy. When we have the board of selectmen
that said, let's do it, board of finance said, let's do it, and now we're gonna say, no. We can't do it. We're not gonna do it because it doesn't align with the charter and statutes. And that's an excellent reason, but the parents aren't gonna see it that way. And I'm and I'm not saying we should do it to save face and and to make ourselves look good, but at the end of the day, it's like, what are we fighting for? We're gonna keep fighting with the same
people.
They're not changing. We're not getting any more to select them. It's gonna be the same people. And if it's not this, it's gonna be the next thing, and it's gonna be the next thing. And if you two are threatening to resign, then I'm gonna fucking resign because I can't deal with this anymore. I can't. I can't deal with sleepless nights. I can't deal with any of this. I just wanna run a school. I want my daughter to go here and feel safe, and I want everybody else's child to go here and feel safe. But
and how we do that and and if we'll ever get along with the board of selection, I hope so. I really do.
Joanne Eber wants to have that meeting. Let's have a meet and greet, and whoever shows, shows.
Let's do it. But it's always gonna be the same people we're gonna be fighting with, and they're never gonna recognize that. They're never gonna recognize us at this board. So what do we do? What do we do? Close that for the whole year? Let me ask this. Because that's I guess that's question.
What is your line in the sand?
>> And when when is when is when is This isn't it. Too much enough? Well, it's getting close.
For for for me being here and on this board, it's it's it's common.
It's really common.
But this isn't the fight. This is not the fight. They have earmarked this money for paving. It is on public record that it's been earmarked for paving. Let's do it and move on. Well, the community center wasn't the fight either.
I mean I know, but they're never going to recognize us. They're never it's never going to happen. Hopefully, maybe one day it will. But
>> I guess I have a hard time giving up the whole
>> I don't even know. I do. I really do. I feel as though
>> if we stick with it
and stick to it and be persistent,
I think we'll get them eventually to understand it, at least understand it,
or maybe listen to us.
I can't see throwing in the towel.
>> But I don't think this is throwing in the towel. I really don't. I really don't.
I really don't. We're completely ignoring state law. How is that not throwing in the towel?
They're ignoring it. That's what the money is making the constitution throwing the garbage. They've ignored the charter, Chris. They've ignored it. But this isn't what we teach our children. We teach the children to follow the rules and follow the law. Right. Right. You're absolutely right. You're absolutely right.
But okay. So then what? Now we close it for the next the whole year and we litigate it?
That's what what else is our option? Our option is to say no.
>> Hey, guys. We also teach our kids to try to we
also teach our children to try to work well with others and compromise.
And I think that people are trying to compromise,
and negating that
or ignoring it is also showing
that you want to continue to fight.
But I don't think that anyone is gonna change anyone else's mind right now, and I think we're just having a circular discussion that's not going to change.
So how do we resolve it tonight?
>> It's gonna change right now because we have an alternative.
And the alternative is we say no.
And we say, no. We're not gonna do it this way, and here's how we're gonna do it.
And if you don't agree with this,
then you call your special meetings to deal with it the way it's supposed to be done. Now board of finance was very quickly able to call a special meeting last Thursday,
And I don't agree that it's gonna take months to get this done, but I do believe that if we don't
put our foot down at this point, we are just suckers for it happening over and over again, and I'm not willing to do that. I had my line in the sand at the community center,
and we fought and fought and fought, and finally, we're told no.
And there were many reasons for that. That was all with regard to the planning and zoning. This is now in the law of the state of Connecticut
in the charter of the town of Andover, and is being ignored.
I can't do that.
So the alternative as far as I see is to go back and say, this is the way we're willing to do it, and you're not gonna give us a permit out of that, then you have a special meeting with us to talk about it. Not just you got the idea, and I believe that Mark Franker is willing to do it and other people on the board of finance are willing to do it. So why don't we do it next week or the week after? And just
anyway, that's my that's my feeling.
>> So we need to get a motion. We need we're we're going circular. So I think we have three options. Right? Yep. We can we can either do the reimbursement,
>> transfer the money. We can say no. Woah. Woah. Woah. So explain what you mean by reimbursement.
>> We we can do what they've asked to do. Mhmm. That's an option. We can say no. That's an option. And we have Valerie's plan. That's an option. Right.
So
>> And I was advocating for Valerie's plan,
which is we not only say no,
but we also say, this is how we're willing to do it, which we believe meets our requirements as a board of education.
So you've said what you believe you need to do as far as the board of selection.
You've said what you need to do as far as the board of finance,
and here's what we believe we need to do as far as the board of education. And here's how we're willing to do it for our property,
our upper parking lot. No more of this is town property.
It's never been town property.
It has always been our responsibility.
And if we're saying that safety is an issue, then we're saying that. It's the safety of our students. So if the safety of our students are an issue, it's our responsibility to address that.
>> So the motion on the table is
to
not transfer fund.
>> And are we gonna have a check cut, or are we just gonna say no? Well, I believe the part of that is we've gotta now go back to Constant whomever
Yeah. Austin, which is who we have the negotiated
proposal with,
and ask if they're willing to meet
the steps that have been required
by the town. Right? Yes. Mhmm. Yes.
Now if we can also do
in the meantime, cut that check and make it payable to the town from the board of education's account,
pending Constantine agreeing to that, there should be no reason that the town shouldn't issue a permit because they will have the money
to pay Constantine.
They will have Constantine having agreed
to meet the requirements that were set by the town, and there should be no reason why they can't move forward.
Shannon, I have a question.
Yep.
>> So the the money was voted, obviously, to already be used for the parking lot. But because these conditions
have been put on it now,
does that I mean, because of those conditions now being on that money, do we have to go back and
vote to to to still move that money if we would move forward to do that? Because now it's it's based on certain conditions. Whereas before,
we had you know, it was just voted on to to to be used for that purpose without those conditions. So I'm just wondering,
with those conditions being added, does it change and make us have to go back and reapprove the same action?
>> I don't think so. Only because
I believe what we said is that we're we're providing for up to was it a $120,000?
120,125
to be used for the project. Right. And town is now putting in additional conditions that they're gonna be responsible for paying for,
then we put in what we agreed to pay for
that meets the requirements of what we agreed in the original contract with Constantine.
Now the question is simply,
will Constantine
be willing to do what was originally proposed
and
the town being paying for the other conditions that are putting in? That's the other problem here is that the town said we're gonna do that,
and now we're taking it back to the town to say, okay. We've paid for what we agreed to pay for. You got a check from us. We don't have to put it into your account. We have our own account.
And
now the there's no reason that the permit shouldn't be given.
Right. So then what with giving them a check and transferring the money? That that I'm I'm That's it. I don't get it. But that's the difference. So then what's the difference, though? Just, like, just give them the money. Like, it's whether it's an like, they told us we need to transfer the money. That was their that was the board of finance's directive. That was it. Unfortunately, the board of finance does not get tell the board of education what to do. They're doing it.
They're doing it.
Absolutely.
Okay. Did you make do you wanna make a motion?
We we need a motion.
>> We do. We do. Yes.
I'm not sure what we're trying to make at this I have no idea what what we're going on. I I am there's three up. It's
ridiculous.
You have to go to Constantine to find something to.
Yeah. But first of all, we have to we have to go to Constantine and give them the attachment that Eric sent. And they have to motion to that effect as well. No.
No.
Constantine,
you need an approval from Constantine no matter which way you go. Right. So you're gonna ask me, we need to make a motion
to allow the
some you, I guess, as our negotiator to go back to Constantine to add in the agenda that the board select when required
in order for Canada to provide an updated proposal. No.
No. Okay. An updated proposal. I'm gonna tell them to them, though. Okay. If you want to. No. I think it's necessary. Okay. Necessary.
So you want me to contact them tomorrow?
Mhmm. Make sure that it's even possible? Mhmm.
And if you could find out their timeline.
I mean, you know, say, Constantine, here's this is your proposal.
This is what the town is asking that be added.
So we would like for you an updated proposal
with you agreeing to the addendum,
and then ask them if,
in a perfect world, when could you start? And and
let us know.
And then
and then we'll we get that dollar amount because the board of finance has approved it up to a 125,000.
We get that amount.
We get the new proposal,
the new quote with the agreed upon addendum over to the town, and Eric gets the permit. So we gotta give them the money.
Did
do the basins and whatnot, that's just the thing that sticks in my head, need to be done before paving can occur? I have no idea. That's what he explained the other day was we had one basin in there,
and they would like three basins.
And that's why they said they would pay for the other two because they didn't wanna see paving done for the replacement of three basins. So the town was going to get the additional basins.
But they do need to go. They need to pick that grade up out there, go down into
the sewer area,
and make sure that the town doesn't have any issues with what's underneath there because that would be constant since the. Right. So we now also need the town to tell us the timing for
their being able to do the basin work. Correct? So it's not just constant gains paving.
Given the requirements that were put by the board of selection last Monday,
we now also need to know when the town can do the basin work. No. Because I think the basin work is being done. Cost of things. Yes. The town is gonna have Probably. Thought that you said the town wanted my understanding when Jay Puddle came to look at the at the project with.
He
wants to verify that they're ordered and placed properly. Thank you. But Okay. But he doesn't have the town doesn't have to do the No. Basic work. That's my question. Correct. Thank you. It doesn't
hold. Right.
Yes. The town is paying for the three new basins. Yes. The volume of basin and.
Okay.
Okay. Okay.
So then we need make a motion.
Adjourn.
>> Oh, no. We have communications
from the public. Oh, yes.
Jerry,
you're you're in charge, sir, of our care, but I don't I don't if you didn't want care. Take any well, excuse me.
But, also, Celestra Cayman might wanna make a low change to the effect that they were talking about.
So
>> Well, I just don't understand what the difference is between cutting a check and transferring the money. We're we're giving them money.
So what what difference does it make?
>> That's check was in alignment with Connecticut general statute. Okay. Transferring the funds is not.
And and and and I mean, so so I I
if we had made the decision after July 1, I would completely agree with you because we would be outside the fiscal year. Right. It would have still been operational money,
but but
the statutes are
are not open to they're they're clear. They're really clear.
>> And there's case law support supporting them, and and and I get it. I'm really sorry, Celeste. No. I know. I just I just feel like it's like we're, like, it's we're splitting hairs at this point, whether it's a check or an ACH transfer.
>> Like So I'll speak for me. Still giving them up. We're still giving them the month. I'll speak for me and only me. Yeah. It is not splitting hairs in my mind. It is ethical stance. K.
Okay.
>> Can I just add that we do not have the capability to do an ACH transfer
at this time?
Why?
Because it was never set up that way.
>> So we can't physically so we can't do We cannot do an ACH transfer
at this time.
>> Okay. So even if we wanted to do an ACH transfer physically,
we can't do it? We don't have the capability?
That is correct.
>> So then we So can we just make a motion to write a check and call it a day?
There you go. Thank you. Yep.
I'll second the motion.
Okay.
Okay. So
you are
>> Made out to Constantine. Yes. After checking with Constantine Right. And there are confirmed for confirmation that they will meet the the the rules and rights set forth by the town, Right. Which I'm supporting, don't know. Then
we'll we will authorize the writing of a check from operational account as opposed or previously by the board of education.
>> Is it an escrow until the permit until the permit is work is completed. Yes. Permit
is issued. Work is completed. Mhmm. You made the motion. I made the motion. I'll second it.
Okay. Well well, hold on. Wait a minute. Hold on. Hold on.
We get the quote from.
They agreed to everything.
Okay. And then we we get a new quote that's for a $124,000.
Mhmm. So then we cut the check to Constantine.
So we're gonna cover them for the for that amount,
and we get give it to them. Yep.
They say
Right. There's money. And we should let them know that we can't do an ACH transfer because our accounts won't go out. We just can't we just can't. So I think we need to make that very clear to them that we're not trying to play we're not trying to hold this up. It's just we can't do that. Here's
the check that's
to who? Constantine?
Constantine.
Now we get the permit, and the project can start.
I I you second it? Or who I seconded it. Okay.
Yeah.
All the questions.
>> All the questions.
The motion on the floor.
Let's say, I wanna make sure we get it ready.
That we're going to get another
Constantine
list of cost for the, like, things that they've got. Hands on. Hands on.
Things that we're going to
write a check
for the agreed upon amount that we would pay.
The panel will responsible for the rest of it to do exceed the amount we agreed to give. No. That's not the motion. No worries about it. No. The motion is
>> I the motion is is that we get a new updated quote from Constantine with the town
addendum. Okay. And if Constantine agrees to the
addendum
Mhmm. That we get the updated quote,
we get it over to Eric Anderson with the check for that amount. Mhmm. And then Eric Anderson pays us the permit or Constantine the permit, and we set up a job.
So
cost will exceed what we set aside. 125,000?
Then we we we So the motion have to stay up to a 125,000.
Correct. Right. Because that's what the board finance
said. Was up to a 125,000,
but that quote right there was a 112,000.
That was the only quote we've worked. Okay. Then they had asked other things prior to that. But the new right. But the new one was 110.
122.
Okay. So so so up to a 125,000.
Can
we roll forward, Jordan?
Shannon?
Aye.
Hello? Aye.
Hi.
Caitlin?
Michael?
I'm gonna go with Naya. I'm post.
I'm post.
>> So now it all gets back to you in person.
Right. Constantine's.
He preferring to.
Right. So then and then just find out when you can start. What what's his time frame? Because then that's gonna determine how long that's, you know, close for.
Yeah. Gonna read the letter.
>> Well, we gotta rework the letter now. Yeah. We do have a letter, but we have to rework Yeah. Oh, can I can I ask a question of so, like like, I'm just I'm a little confused about the communication aspect of this too because I don't know if I misunderstood
kinda, like, what our approach was at the last board meeting
that we had when we talked about this?
But, you know, I just I find it extremely concerning that, you know, we had talked about it at that last meeting.
And we're sitting here
eight days before the first day of school,
and
parents
I mean, parents have received
what seems like to me nothing regarding
this situation whatsoever.
So, like, I'm just a bit confused as to
you know, we had discussed that. We had
worked on something to be sent out,
yet parents
didn't receive anything. And in the welcome back letter that parents received,
there was even arrival and dismissal routines that talked about using
the upper parking lot as a mechanism
for that. So, like, I'm just I'm confused as to, like, how we're actually gonna tell parents now with eight days left,
about the ramifications or possible ramifications of this. It just has me greatly concerned that, you know, we didn't do it sooner.
>> Yeah. The I will say the letter the day that we had our board meeting, and I said, we're stepping it tomorrow. It was already stuck, unfortunately, that day.
But as soon as the letter is to me, I mean, I'm happy to communicate it. I think
I think we'll be okay, Mike. I mean, I'm not saying people will be happy, but I think I will be able
to certainly make it clear to families with with time.
We have pre k and k orientation on Wednesday night, and those are your most new families and kind of who need the most
information regarding that. I think our upper grades families who have been here a while are much more seasoned in getting my communications and will, you know, certainly be able to adapt. I don't think like I said, I think anyone's gonna be happy. We know that. But
as soon as you have, you know, a recourse for that. Yeah.
I mean, that is what it is. But I also think we need the from Constantine's to be able to to actually answer that question, Michael. So last time it was that we didn't send it out because we didn't have an answer from the board of selectmen as to whether or not they were actually gonna issue the permit,
and then they bucked it over to the board of finance. So as of
Friday, we finally had an about Thursday night, we finally had an answer, but then we felt we needed to have our special meeting tonight. Right. So Right. It's been kinda holding. Yep. So we need to now hear from costume teams, and then I'm not a parent, and I am absolutely
well, I don't know what word there is, but I I feel very badly that this is come about in this way. We've trying to do this now.
>> Right. And, like, I guess,
my confusion is that, you know, I thought that we're being extremely proactive about it with that discussion at our last meetings. Like, hey. Let's let the parents know. Let's let's tell them what's happening here and just to get something there so that if this kind of situation happened where we're sitting almost a week before school starts, that at least parents were aware of the possibilities of what might be taking place. And the fact that they've received nothing about it,
even just a a just a just a a a a brief general, like, hey. This is out there. Like, that's
very concerning to me. And now as a parent, if I'm getting something,
you know, say, if you were to put together something and, like, you send it out in the mail tomorrow, you're like if it's if parents get it tomorrow in some way, shape, or form, whatever that is, that's still a a week before school starts. That's not a lot of time.
And
that it's I I'm just trying to voice it's extremely frustrating when we as a board talked about it at our last meeting, and we said this was important to do. And we had
letters written or a letter written in some way, shape, or form, and it was never
communicated with anybody. Like, that's extremely frustrating that we didn't follow through
on what we all sounded like we thought was extremely important.
And as a parent, if I knew that, that the board had said we thought this was important and then never actually did it and communicated with that parent, as a parent who wouldn't have known that and found out about it a week before school, that would make me extremely frustrated.
Right. But we are doing something about it. We we have But we should have done with all due respect, we should have done something about it based off of our conversation that we had at our last meeting saying we're gonna do something about it.
>> Even if it's just this is a possibility
more efficient for them. Yep.
>> Which is what that letter was, in effect, saying.
So with
all due respect to the entire board,
that that's our problem. We we kind of fumbled the ball.
In in in my decision, we fumbled the ball on that. And
I think we should take ownership of it in whatever way we need to.
>> Yeah. And I just wanna say too, if nothing is gonna be inconvenient,
I mean, we are gonna make it happen in the least inconvenient way. I just wanna assure the board that I don't
I'm not gonna create a bigger problem than there is to create one. You know, we are working on that here,
but I get what you're saying, Mike, and and I think we will hopefully, you know, be proactive now. But
the bus I also have a DATCO meeting tomorrow too, you and they were coming to school. So they're they're you know, that wouldn't have happened prior to this now anyway. So so we're definitely,
you know, have time to make those,
hopefully, the smoothest that we can in the lower lot.
Right. And, hopefully, Constantine will work with us, and, hopefully, you know, in a way, it's a school. I mean, you know, strange things have happened. So and there's a there's an end to it. There's a you know, the paving's gonna happen on whatever.
And you know? So Mhmm. There is an end to it. So, yes, it will be an inconvenience, but it it will be worth a a a short
amount of time.
>> Mike, made a good point. Thank you for articulating it so well.
I totally understand what you're saying, and I have to agree with you.
No.
>> No. It's very public? Very public, but not really.
Okay.
Upcoming meetings?
September
13.
>> We're on February 13.
One, two, and three. I hope that we're on track
by then.
So we track.
Until we adjourn,
I would like someone
take over the
project
for me.
Yeah. What?
With meeting?
>> Yeah. To be dealing with the board finance. Yeah. The board of selection.
>> Well, I don't I I hopefully, there won't be anymore because
but I I'm happy to submit here. And if you need that, stop. Skip it. Thanks. I think good talk. I'll talk to you. I I I am I am very hopeful and confident that this will be the the end to this
and that we can move forward and that we can have a bigger discussion with the board of finance about this house.
So going forward,
we have a
specific outline of responsibilities
and what we need to do and how we need to handle projects like this going forward. But I'm I'm happy to be the point person.
>> Thank you. I thought we were doing voluntary.
Thank
you for taking on. You're welcome. Yeah.
I wanna thank you for both of you.
And just If there is a meeting Yeah. Jeff and Mark.
And Mark is gonna come with you. Okay.
>> Or I'll just step back on the two to go. So can we can so how how shall we communicate this to the town that we've decided on this and that we are make that we're taking steps to go forward with this? Is it an email? Is it is it I don't know. Taylor, what's the easiest way for you to communicate
from a school point of view? Or I
>> think it needs to be bus. No. No. No. No. No. Talk to me. That's not the
Constantine I'll get them. Okay. Okay. But then but then I still do think it needs some cost. That's great. Right. Exactly. Yeah. Uh-huh. We'll be correct. Sure. Yeah. We'll we'll just Right. Soon as you hear back from Constantine, let us know, and then, you know, we can say this is what we I mean, they can watch it, or we can put it in an email. And then I think, yes, to Mike's point, we should have something that says once we have a timeline from Constantine that the upper lot will be closed I mean, it's gonna be closed to the start of school, and, hopefully, paving will be done
whenever and whatever that pickup drop off is gonna look like down here.
>> I think we have a chance that we don't have an answer from Constantine Demons tomorrow.
I think we need to send out some notification.
>> To to To parents. Oh, oh, that's that needs to go out Yes. No matter what. I mean, it's just hope hopefully, we can get at least a timeline to parents. That would be ideal, but I agree. Something needs to go out saying the is gonna be closed. We're in the process of taking it. We'd love to have it done soon. You know? Absolutely.
But, we can get something from Constantine that says, yeah. You know? Can Sandra send something out tomorrow that just says look for
something in the upcoming week. Yeah. I mean, I can work with you on on work with her on on work to send out to say. Yeah. Because she could send that out tomorrow. Sure. Sure. That does, to Mike's point, say,
expect that there's gonna be some kind of a closure as soon as we know Right. How long Right. And what the time frame is gonna let you know. Right. The board of will let you know or something. But, yeah, I'm
fine with that. If you wanna just email the parents and just say the upper left's gonna be closed, the board of Ed is working on it, you know, and the board of Ed will provide an update as to timeline.
That's I'm I'm fine with that if if you're okay with that.
Yep. Yep. I'll let help them. Yeah.
And then hopefully, we can send out a more formal communication that the, like, you know, the lot is the paving will start on and will hopefully end on, and then
and then we can communicate to the town, you know,
letting decided
on this and
from that.
Thank
>> you all for your patience. Thanks, Jeremy. Thank you for expressing your
within your mind and within your heart. Mhmm.
I think that all of us
wanna do what's what's in the best interest for the children.
That's why we were
we left it in this position.
And I think we always did it. Not only kids and their parents,
but the whole community.
Even our best to put the children's work
in four months
and do what we need to do.
And that means
going through what we're going through.
It's not easy. No. No. No one I don't know what it would be. Right.
But I thank you for
your willingness to put your energy and effort into this,
and thank you for serving
the pound the way you're doing it. It's
beyond my understanding
that you're able to do this so well
because I feel very in that sometimes.
>> Your motion to adjourn. I'll make a motion to adjourn.
I'll set the one. We'll do.
Do. We'll tomorrow.
Bye. Bye, Terry. Bye.
>> Have a good night, everybody. Bye bye. Bye, guys. Take care.
Bye.